Cryptic Crossword Solver
========================

## Aim

A typical crossword involves a grid with black squares, not to be filled in by
the solver, and white squares used by the solver to input their answers. The
input comes from the solver working out the answer to given clues. These clues
have an orientation, a length and a number associated with its related position
within the grid. The fundamental difference between a typical crossword and a
cryptic crossword are the clues themselves.

Cryptic crosswords are a popular type of puzzles found in many parts of the
world. Most common-wealth national newspapers will print cryptic crosswords of
varying difficulty on a daily basis.

Cryptic crosswords are a unique style of crosswords, in which the answer to each
given clue is a word puzzle. An answer can only be obtained if the cryptic clue
is read in the correct way. Often when the clue is surface read, the clue makes
no sense at all. The challenge is to find a way in which the reading of the clue
leads to a solution. To aid with solving cryptic crosswords, the clues are
written to be within specific categories, such as reversals and anagrams, which
have individual characteristics.

Many users can often become frustrated when a clue appears to be unsolvable. It
is the vast range of possible clues that often makes solving not only
challenging but interesting as well.

Fundamentally, the overall aim of this project is to develop a piece of software
that is able to solve any given type of cryptic crossword clue.


## Product

Within this group project, three components will be delivered. The first
deliverable is the final, working piece of software. Whilst the second and third
deliverables are written reports. The second deliverable is a group written
report comprising of the all research and implementation details of the software
product. The final deliverable will be each member's individual analysis and
evolution of the project as a whole.

Based upon the given background and problem information it could be possible to
develop a product that is able to solve the given problem.

The final product would be a piece of software that is able to understand a
given clue and try to deduce what the answer to the clue is. This would require
the software to have some form of natural language processing component as well
as one or more cryptic crossword algorithms. Once a clue has been correctly
"guessed" it can simply be returned to the user. It is the "guessing" of the
answer that this project will primarily focus upon.

In order to gain maximum user coverage, the software must have an easy to use
interface. The main reason for this is that the computer literacy


## Module Synopsis

In this module (CMP3410) the learners are formed into groups of three to five 
developers and are allocated specific software development tasks, which 
culminate in the production of a piece of working software. Wherever possible 
these projects will be for 'real' clients, often the companies where the 
students worked on their industrial placements. A member of academic staff 
assumes an active role as project manager for each group, and provides tutorial 
support in the examination of the processes involved. In particular the tutor 
leads investigation of project management methods and techniques relevant to 
software development. The groups make use of modern software tools and 
environments in the conduct of their project.

The major aims of the module are:

1. To develop an understanding of team work within one of a number of team structures.
2. To illustrate the problems of cooperative software development and its management.
3. To introduce the practical use of large scale software development tools.
